To control apple scab, Prune for better air movement and sunlight penetration for drying /remove water sprouts.
To deal with apple scab in the winter, remove fallen leaves and orchard sanitation. Spray 5% solution of urea in the autumn to aid in the breakdown of leaf tissue (42 lb urea in 100 gallons of water). Since nitrogen is being applied in the orchard, the fertilizer program needs to be adjusted accordingly. Shred leaf litter using a flail mower or remove leaf litter by raking, sweeping, or vacuuming are additional options.
To prevent future apple scab, Use fungicides as appropriate.
To control black rot in apples, prune out and remove infected and dead branches in the winter when the temperature falls below 0oC. Properly dispose of infected wood away from healthy trees by burning, burying or composting. 
Remove any remaining shrivelled or mummified fruit if black rot appears in apple trees. 
To prevent future black rot in apple trees, maintain well-watered trees and plant resistant cultivars. 
To prevent Cedar Apple Rust, choose planting sites at a distance from the forest lines.
Once cedar apple rust is discovered, you should prune diseased pranches of cedar trees less than a mile from the orchard and remove cedar trees in close proximity to the orchard. 
Plant disease resistant cultivars to prevent Cedar Apple Rust. 
If your apple trees are healthy, you don’t need to do anything. 
If your blueberry plants are healthy, you don’t need to do anything. 
If your cherry plants are healthy, you don’t need to do anything. 
If your corn plants are healthy, you don’t need to do anything. 
If your grape plants are healthy, you don’t need to do anything. 
If your peach plants are healthy, you don’t need to do anything. 
If your potato plants are healthy, you don’t need to do anything. 
If your raspberry plants are healthy, you don’t need to do anything.
If your bell pepper plants are healthy, you don’t need to do anything.
If your tomato plants are healthy, you don’t need to do anything.
If your strawberry plants are healthy, you don’t need to do anything
To protect your cherries from powdery mildew, spray with fungicides soon after petal fall and 2 to 3 weeks later if needed. Do not use the same fungicide or fungicides with similar chemistry more than twice a year to prevent resistence..
To treat powdery mildew on cherries, manage irrigation systems to ensure you aren’t irrigating too early (which may stimulate early cherry powdery mildew infections), and prune your canopy to promote airflow and leaf drying. 
As treatment for Cercospora Leaf Spot (Gray Leaf Spot) in Corn, includes resistant corn hybrids, conventional tillage and crop rotation. 
Foliar fungicides can be effectively on susceptible inbreds or hybrids for treating Cercospora Leaf Spot. 
The best management practice for common rust in corn is to use resistant corn hybrids.
Fungicides can also be beneficial to treat common rust in corn, especially if applied early when few pustules have appeared on the leaves.
Using resistant hybrids in the future can prevent northern leaf blight in corn. Crop rotation and tillage practices may also be useful. 
Fungicides can be used to treat Northern Leaf Blight in corn. 
Infected and mummified berries should be removed if black rot is detected in grapes. They should be burned and/or buried in the soil before new growth. 
To prevent further black rot in grapes, early season fungicides should be timed to prevent early infections in particularly susceptible varieties/an area where black rot was a previous problem. 
Preventative practices for esca in grapes include delaying pruning to as last as possible, double pruning, and applying pruning-wound protectants
Post-infection with esca (black measles) un grapes, included sanitation - removing dead spurs or stunted shoots and destroying them - and vine surgery.
Treating leaf blight in grapes entails spraying a mixture of fungicides. Bordeaux mixture (1.0%), Mancozeb (0.2%), Topsin-M (0.1%), Ziram (0.35%) or Captan (0.2%) is to be sprayed alternatively at weekly intervals from Jun-August and again from December until harvest to keep this disease under check. Two to three sprays of systemic fungicides should be given per season
Maintaining trees in good health, especially root health, is important for trees to withstand Huanglongbing (Citrus Greening). There is no cure for the disease.
Commercial growers and homeowners should use sound cultural control practices to help lessen the occurrence and severity of bacterial spot in peaches. Spray measures are preventative, so must be enacted in a timely fashion. Plant bacterial-spot resistant or less susceptible varieties. 
Timely pruning practices used by commercial growers and homeowners facilitate controlling diseases like bacterial spot in peaches. 
To control bacterial spots in peppers, use indexed pathogen-negative seed, treated seed, or disease-free transplants. Rotate out of peppers for at least 1 year. Use furrow or drip irrigation instead of overhead irrigation
Treatment of bacterial spot in peppers with copper spray is justified only under high pressure as might occur with sprinkler irrigations
Early blight in Potatoes can be minimized by maintaining optimum growing conditions, including proper fertilization, irrigation, and management of other pests. Grow later maturing, longer season varieties. 
To treat early blight in potatoes, apply fungicides as soon as symptoms appear; continued protection requires application at 7- to 10-day intervals.
Late blight in Potatoes is controlled by eliminating cull piles and volunteer potatoes, using proper harvesting and storage practices, and applying fungicides when necessary. Air drainage to facilitate the drying of foliage each day is important.
When late blight in potatoes has developed on foliage and tubers are at risk of infection, make sure that vines are completely dead for 2 to 3 weeks before harvest.
To prevent powdery mildew in squash, Plant resistant varieties, follow good sanitation practices, and control weeds. Start monitoring for powdery mildew during the vegetative growth stage and continue through fruit development. 
Apply a treatment when disease symptoms of powdery mildrew in squash first occur and repeat if symptoms reappear. 
For strawberry leaf scorch, select a planting site with good air drainage and sun exposure. Cultivars resistant to leaf scorch may be available and need to be evaluated for specific horticultural characteristics. 
For strawberry leaf scorch prevention, plant new transplants frequently, and allow adequate spacing between them to increase airflow. Control weeds. Avoid amendment with supplemental nitrogen in spring, as this may enhance disease. Keep moisture levels down and avoid long wetness periods by monitoring irrigation schedules; if possible, use drip irrigation rather than overhead
 Fungicide treatments for strawberry leaf scorch are effective during the flowering period, and during late summer and fall.
To control bacterial spot in tomatoes, using pathogen-free seed and disease-free transplants, when possible, is the best way to avoid bacterial spot on tomato. Avoiding sprinkler irrigation and cull piles near greenhouse or field operations, and rotating with a nonhost crop also helps control the disease.
Copper-containing bactericides provide partial disease control for bacterial spot in tomatoes. 
To treat early blight in tomatoes, destroy nightshades and volunteer tomato plants, apply a fungicide at the first sign. 
To prevent early blight in tomatoes, proper crop rotation is important to ensure infected debris decomposes.
To treat late blight in tomatoes, Remove any nearby volunteer tomato and potato plants and nightshades. Fungicides are generally needed only if the disease appears during a time of year when rain is likely or overhead irrigation is practiced
To avoid late blight in tomatoes, Check transplants to ensure they are free of late blight before planting. Avoid sprinkler irrigation, if possible, because it favors the development of late blight.
To avoid tomato yellow leaf curl virus, Plant immediately after any tomato-free period or true winter season.Avoid planting new fields near older fields (especially those with TYLCV-infected plants). Manage Whiteflies.Cover plants with floating row covers of fine mesh (Agryl or Agribon) to protect from whitefly infestations.Rogue diseased plants when incidence of virus infection is low.Practice good weed management in and around fields to the extent feasible. Remove and destroy old crop residue and volunteers on a regional basis.
To prevent tomato leaf mold, monitor, use resistant varieties, use drip irrigation, space plants, and circulate air. Use pesticides prior to infection. 
If a tomato plant displays signs of tomato mosaic virus, remove the entire plant and bag it. 
To prevent tomato mosaic virus, use rotation and good sanitation. 
To treat septoria leaf spot in tomatoes, remove diseased leaves, and dispose of or bury it. 
To prevent tomato septoria leaf spot, improve air circulation, control weeds, do not use overhead watering and use crop rotation. 
If spider mites are detected in a tomato plant, physically remove them using a high-pressure water splay. Use insecticidal soap. 
To prevent spider mites in a tomato plant, keep plants healthy, remove them physically, and use pesticides. 
To prevent target spot in tomatoes, use cultural practices such as improving airflow, avoiding planting tomatoes near old spots, and managing weeds. 
The primary strategy used to manage target spot on tomato is the regular application of fungicides